README.md, before:

# DERMIT-Corpus
A multi-lingual corpus in German, Romansh and Italian

## Corpus
The parallel corpus is presented as JSON files, one per year.

### Parallel sentences
Tab seperated files containing parallel sentences in the three combinations: German-Romansh (DE-RM), German-Italian (DE-IT) and Romansh-Italian (RM-IT).

|Combination|Sentences|Tokens|Types|
|-----------|---------|------|-----|
|DE-RM      |106091   |1864886, 2377547|97385, 50869|
|DE-IT      |103441   |1848214, 2219378|96859, 58050|
|RM-IT      |102757   |2302374, 2165287|50014, 57642|



## [Gold Standard](./gold_standard/)
A set of 600 parallel sentences (German-Romansh), manually annotated for word alignment. 

## Citation
If you use this corpus or gold standard for published work, please cite my [master's thesis](https://www.cl.uzh.ch/dam/jcr:5eda2d8a-fe61-4860-82c1-421e2e1d18c3/MA_thesis_Digital_Linguistics_Eyal_Dolev_2022_12_11.pdf):

```bibtex
@mastersthesis{mathesis-dolev-2022,
  author  = "Eyal Liron Dolev",
  title   = "Using Multilingual Word Embeddings for Similarity-Based Word Alignments in a Zero-Shot Setting: Tested on the Case of German–Romansh",
  school  = "University of Zurich",
  year    = "2022",
  url     = "https://www.cl.uzh.ch/dam/jcr:5eda2d8a-fe61-4860-82c1-421e2e1d18c3/MA_thesis_Digital_Linguistics_Eyal_Dolev_2022_12_11.pdf"
}

```

Commit message:

Update copyright notice and citation

README.md, after:

# DERMIT-Corpus
A multi-lingual corpus in German, Romansh and Italian

## Corpus
The parallel corpus is presented as JSON files, one per year.

### Parallel sentences
Tab seperated files containing parallel sentences in the three combinations: German-Romansh (DE-RM), German-Italian (DE-IT) and Romansh-Italian (RM-IT).

|Combination|Sentences|Tokens|Types|
|-----------|---------|------|-----|
|DE-RM      |106091   |1864886, 2377547|97385, 50869|
|DE-IT      |103441   |1848214, 2219378|96859, 58050|
|RM-IT      |102757   |2302374, 2165287|50014, 57642|


### Copyright
The copyright to the press releases lies with the Canton of Graubünden. Downloading the press releases is explicitly allowed. Commercial use is explicity prohibited. In any event, please consult the [copyright notice](https://www.gr.ch/de/Seiten/Impressum.aspx) on the cantnon's website.


## [Gold Standard](./gold_standard/)
A set of 600 parallel sentences (German-Romansh), manually annotated for word alignment. 




## Citation
If you use this corpus or the gold standard for published work, please cite my paper:

```bibtex
@inproceedings{dolev-2023-romansh,
    author    = "Eyal Liron Dolev",
    title     = "Does m{BERT} understand Romansh? Evaluating word embeddings using word alignment",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 8th Swiss Text Analytics Conference (SwissText)",
    year      = "2023",
    month     = "jun"
}

```
